Instructions for downloading and running the macro
1.	Download and install ImageJ: 
 http://rsbweb.ih.gov/ij/download.html
2.	Download the macro Cell Colony Edge. Or copy-paste, and save as a .txt file
3.	Place the Cell_Colony_Edge.txt file into the directory containing the folder of images
4.	To launch the macro:  Plugins → Macros  → Run
Navigate to and select the macro file, and click ‘Open’
5.	Enter values for scale in popup
a.	Select Unit as pixel or um
b.	Enter value for ‘Number of pixels/unit’ if scale is known. 
c.	If scale is not known, leave as 0 and unit as pixel. Image will be left unchanged
d.	Press OK
6.	Enter parameter values in popup 
a.	Select option ‘Subtract Background’ if needed
b.	Enter parameter values (manually determined as per steps in Appendix 
C.  Select option for measuring objects from original image of processed binary image
7.	Select Input Directory (containing only images) and press ‘Choose’
8.	Select location of Output Directory using the popup, and press ‘Choose’
9.	Let macro run, process all the files, and save outlined copies in the Output Directory
10.	Open files in the Output Directory with ImageJ to confirm correct determination of cells and colonies
11.	Analyze Results.txt as needed.  


Manual determination of parameters using ImageJ GUI  (Note the different Remove Outlier steps, and their placement within the macro)
1.	Open image
2.	Image → Duplicate
a.	Enter title
3.	Process → Subtract Background
a.	Select option ‘Preview’ to test out different radii, conditions etc
b.	Enter value for radius of rolling ball (near average diameter of objects)
c.	Select option ‘light background’
d.	Select option ‘Separate’ if RGB image
4.	Process → Sharpen
5.	Process → Noise  → Remove Outliers 1 (if needed)
a.	Select option ‘Preview’ to test out different radii
b.	Enter value ‘0’ for Threshold 
c.	Select option “Bright’ for Which Outliers
d.	Enter value for radius  (to exclude debris and background, while keeping cells and colonies). Enter value 0 if not needed.
6.	Process → Enhance Contrast
a.	Enter value ‘0.2’ for Saturated Pixels
7.	Process → Find Edges
8.	Process  → Binary  → Make Binary 
9.	Process → Filters  → Gaussian Blur
a.	Select option ‘Preview’ to test out different radii
b.	Enter value for radius (to smooth out colony edges)
10.	Process  → Binary  → Make Binary 
11.	Process  → Binary  → Close
12.	Process  → Binary  → Fill Holes
13.	Process → Noise  → Remove Outliers 2 
a.	Select option ‘Preview’ to test out different radii
b.	Enter value ‘0’ for Threshold 
c.	Select option “Dark’ for Which Outliers
d.	Enter value for radius. Compare to the original image to ensure real colonies are not excluded. Enter value 0 if not needed.
14.	Process  → Filters  → Maximum
a.	Select option ‘Preview’ to test out different radii
b.	Enter value for radius (to close circles for cells and colonies)
15.	Process  → Binary  → Close
16.	Process  → Binary  → Fill Holes
17.	Process  → Filters  → Minimum
a.	Select option ‘Preview’ to test out different radii
b.	Enter value for radius (to return object sized to original)
18.	Process → Noise  → Remove Outliers (if needed)
19.	Process  → Binary  → Watershed   (if needed. Skip if measuring tube assay)
20.	Process → Noise  → Remove Outliers 3
21.	Analyze → Set Measurements
a.	Select measurements such as Area
b.	Select options ‘Add to overlay’, and ‘Display label’
c.	Select the original image name from the ‘Redirect to’ pulldown menu
22.	Analyze → Analyze Particles
a.	Enter range of values for Size and Circularity
b.	Select ‘Outlines’ in Show pulldown menu
c.	Select options ‘Display results’, ‘Summarize’, ‘Add to Manager’, ‘Exclude on edges’
23.	Select the Result window. File → Save as → select folder, and enter filename.
24.	Similarly save processed image (if needed) 
